Jo Delgadillo: Hot
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It was a little hot here in Florida.
Jo Delgadillo: My body like goes in shock.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm gonna say you were having hot flashes to
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, so that makes it worse.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Uh, how's your day going
Jo Delgadillo: Relaxing like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's the change for you.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, well, I'm trying really hard to
Jo Delgadillo: Just sit. He not do nothing. It's hard.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, so
Jo Delgadillo: No, I just feel like I don't like stop.
Jo Delgadillo: Trying
Jo Delgadillo: To stop so
Jo Delgadillo: I don't know.
Jo Delgadillo: It's hard to sleep because my mind is shut up.
Jo Delgadillo: So I figured if I don't go crazy like during the day.
Jo Delgadillo: Maybe shut up at night.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, sometimes it just depends on what
Yeah, what
Jo Delgadillo: The screws me over for the whole night day
I don't
Jo Delgadillo: Sir,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you able to enforce calmness today. What did you do differently.
Jo Delgadillo: Oh, I've been coloring and painting.
Jo Delgadillo: What's arts and crafts.
Jo Delgadillo: Lots.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So everything good with you about Gabriel. I'm sorry. I didn't know what happened. I was trying to catch up to speed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: During the group session, but it seems like you both cleared the air, but I wanted to know if there's anything you wanted to process.
Jo Delgadillo: One on one
Jo Delgadillo: I don't, I wonder if I missed because when I was missing. Like when I got back from California around all that time, like I did. I missed a lot because it took us a while to get
Jo Delgadillo: Back into routine. And I did. I missed a lot and I was still getting my two weeks worth of medication like to last for two weeks.
Jo Delgadillo: And now all of a sudden
Jo Delgadillo: She said that I missed. And I only got four days worth. Oh, I don't know what I'm being punished for is what I don't understand.
Jo Delgadillo: Like when I was missing. I didn't get
Jo Delgadillo: She didn't only give me
Jo Delgadillo: To get to the next like therapy session or group therapy like
Jo Delgadillo: But now she is all of a sudden, so I'm like,
Jo Delgadillo: What's personal like what I don't know what changed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I know she has been in a lot of the doctors. I'm now supporting the therapist by individuals session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Reaching the script and we because of the constant no shows. So that's not personalized to you, anyone that has an individual session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's encouraged to help out with the skills for the doctors are also bridging the prescription on. So that's a bright her health policy because personalized in
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, but yeah, I didn't know what happened because by the time I came to group.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Last week, and I wasn't too late to like this had to be a very quick interaction, because I got there and doctor said you have left because you had to help with your son. So I figured, Adrian, you have checked in super early which you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have to do and you did everything with Perez. So by the time I logged in at the time you were gone. So I did not know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: what transpired. And I'm not trying to revisit it and if you're upset, but I want to know if there's anything I can help you with processing, whatever happened because I also know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even if you were having a challenge, we probably wouldn't want to discuss it openly in group. So if you want to process that we can we can spend some time talking about it right now. That's what you want.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: It just felt personal
Jo Delgadillo: Me.
Jo Delgadillo: And she said that I missed and I can't, I can't think of anything. I miss unless you're talking about that, um, pain group that I was supposed to be a part of. But I guess I should have spoke up because I haven't been going but
Jo Delgadillo: I was told that it wasn't. I didn't have to go. It was just something she offered me. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, because I'm looking, I'm yeah you've been pretty consistent. We're
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Coming to group them to see
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: March.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Been pretty consistent with coming. So I'm not sure.
Jo Delgadillo: I'm not either. That's why it
Jo Delgadillo: Or maybe she was confusing me for somebody else because she's done that once before. When I first started
Jo Delgadillo: And I cried like he got me upset and other people have stood up for me because he wasn't the same thing with her. Now it's like
Jo Delgadillo: It just, it, you have to watch what you say.
Jo Delgadillo: I feel like when I talked to her.
Jo Delgadillo: She kind of snap say not really stops every week just makes me feel bad about myself. And I do that enough for myself.
Jo Delgadillo: For her to do that. It just sucked.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: And it ruined my whole week because I couldn't get I knew we were going to talk about. And I'm glad she brought it up because
Jo Delgadillo: It messes me all week long.
Jo Delgadillo: And everybody was just like, once you just talk to your therapist about it and
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't even know she knows and he didn't know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Maybe to tell you know I didn't know. So I wasn't trying to distract from the group, but like I feel like there's so much that's going on right now. And I don't even know what's happening.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's why I had to interject if she didn't bring it up, would you have felt comfortable to address that, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How that conversation affected you
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I would have just I'd rather talk about it then not because I know me.
Jo Delgadillo: Like if I didn't know the answers from him out in my head, I feel it in like oh my oh
Jo Delgadillo: Yes, and now
Jo Delgadillo: That affects me for some not.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So good, you brought that up because how I was talking to a group about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The irrational thinking and how last week we talked about the black or white thinking next group, we're going to talk about jumping to conclusions and that is one of the distorted.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: thought processes to so what you said with you fill in the blanks. That would have been doing the jumping to conclusions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's all of us have these thinking errors that you know kind of leads us into ways that causes us to spiral. Because typically, when we fill in the blanks.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's not for the better. So I'm glad you guys were able to process that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I would empower you. As I empower all the other patients that that there's something that said, you know, to just be able to have that open dialogue.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There is a way in our trust that you can have that dialogue respectfully. Some people need a little more skills to be able to navigate conflict and how to how to have a discussion, but I've seen you in enough settings to know that you would find a respectful way to have that conversation.
Oh, I just
Jo Delgadillo: Like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: You're screaming and yelling, but I do, I do have go a lot. One thing, but only one I'm pushed to it.
Jo Delgadillo: The caustic call until
Jo Delgadillo: It's happening in some kind of way, especially when I'm just trying to talk
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, it's a lot but
Jo Delgadillo: I've learned to just try to walk away because sometimes it's not worth it. Especially when someone's mad.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, and I'm
Jo Delgadillo: Going to talk to them.
Jo Delgadillo: I'll wait until they're not mad, even if James days.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When
Jo Delgadillo: I can always feel when it's the right time, they want, it's not
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so in a group, you felt like it was not the right time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When it initially happened to address it.
Jo Delgadillo: No, I wasn't. I had to leave like we were. That's why I told her I couldn't
Jo Delgadillo: Because the plan was for me to take a load there and then Mercedes was gonna stay in the house and do the thing there while I did my group.
Jo Delgadillo: But instead, when we got there. The key that they gave us. We couldn't even get in
Jo Delgadillo: So we sat out there for like 20 minutes and we finally got ahold of the guy. He said it would take at least an hour. I'm like, I can't leave a pregnant girl side with all the stuff I can do like
Jo Delgadillo: There's no way
Jo Delgadillo: So that's what I was like, let me call and tell them I haven't missed in a while so
Jo Delgadillo: I figured it'd be okay. And she's just she got four weeks left. I can't couldn't have just left her out there and you had to wait.
Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: And she had the babies with me. So always like it. Nothing worked out the way it was gonna. She's like, but you knew about this sounds like, yes, but I got so worked up I
Jo Delgadillo: was hard to explain myself.
Jo Delgadillo: Because she wouldn't let me talk and when she does. It's just to hear what I'm saying. So
Jo Delgadillo: I just stop talking when I start talking. That's just because you're
Jo Delgadillo: Not here.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I just
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't. I do. I just
Jo Delgadillo: Keep trying. And I usually do.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Did you feel after after that exchange. Did you still feel that you have made the right choice or did it.
What did you feel
Jo Delgadillo: I feel relieved
Jo Delgadillo: Like I did something for myself, even though I was getting them out of my grandma's house I sorry I didn't tell her I should have said, I get a room like
Jo Delgadillo: We've been living in living room and my grandma's house this whole time.
Jo Delgadillo: So it's yes I should have said that. And then she would have been like, oh, okay, I get it.
Jo Delgadillo: Was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I wanted my basic needs met at this point.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, yeah. So now the girls have a bad now we ever had. And we had the room. And yeah, it's
Jo Delgadillo: I should have said that, but I got worked up and I didn't
Jo Delgadillo: That's why I was like
Jo Delgadillo: What you said that you should probably would have understand a little bit more
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That both of you were coming from a place of okay let's prioritize
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We want group members to prioritize the food.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're not just we're getting on medication, but we're also getting therapeutic skills, we're getting the connection for building relationships and we're getting a sentence in this setting so that we can have long term sobriety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you're thinking, Wow, this is important to me. I have to prioritize my basic needs of living arrangements and that has been a primary stressor, for you, for like months now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, see why. And I actually respect that you didn't just blow us off, you still came in earlier, try to check in and explain everything versus just not showing up. Um, but you can see how
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All of us, we have a perception in mind, we have a certain agenda. It's hard to see past that becomes like a filtered lens and and I'm glad that she noticed that after the fact, not in that moment, but she came and she worked it out because it seemed that it was bothering her to
Jo Delgadillo: Deliver already
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I seen it in her like she gosh I'm
Jo Delgadillo: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I was thankful. She brought it up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it's a good exchange for other group members to see this is how
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Communication works. You know, there is no perfect relationship there may be some times I will send you some group members with comments that I've mentioned. And I'm like, well,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I think because I have a soft spoken voice I can get away with things but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's not true. So I have to be careful to with my sarcasm. I have to be careful with, you know what I say and what the delivery is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Every relationship has a potential to hurt like that black or white thinking video where they say, is it possible for someone you love to also hurt you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Definitely it's possible. That's the course of a relationship. So I was, I'm happy to see her demonstrate what you know the skills that we want the group members to get
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That even if there is an uncomfortable exchange in communication, there's a way to repair it. It just takes that person coming back and asking, hey,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When I said this further that you know look like for you when, how could we fix this. And this is what I was thinking. And just being in that safe space and sometimes it does take time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To go back because like you said, if you try to continue to express your point in that moment, she probably wouldn't have resonated with her because she had her perception, you know,
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, and I seen a shutdown. Yeah, that was my grandma right now. I think that's why I'm so thankful that she brought it up.
Jo Delgadillo: And we talked about it just
Jo Delgadillo: My grandma hates on me a lot now.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, like she's being so mean to me.
Jo Delgadillo: Everything I do if I clean the kitchen. Oh, you didn't do this. You didn't do that. Oh, finally, you did something. I'm like, what do you think does everything around here.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't, I don't know. It's never, ever, ever. Good enough. And now that we're staying with her. It's not. It's just, she never stops.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The quarantine is making her irritable and she takes it out on the
Jo Delgadillo: Internet a little
Jo Delgadillo: My guys I see the signs there she's she'll repeat herself. I think her earrings going to
Jo Delgadillo: And I love it because I'll say something and if she's not looking at me if I turn my head mean she'll say, she'll say some crazy stuff too. And I'm like,
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't say like, this is what I said and she
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Was like
Jo Delgadillo: I won't argue with
Jo Delgadillo: Walk away and I guess she's
Jo Delgadillo: She's so mean to me lately.
Jo Delgadillo: When she talks to me. I think she can feel
Jo Delgadillo: That I'm not mad at the feeling, but she she could feel it, because she's kind of cold two or three right now.
Jo Delgadillo: And it's because I feel that she's not she doesn't like me, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right now.
Jo Delgadillo: Yes, it is. And I know it's just everybody's quarantine. She wants to go out, she done bought herself birds, just to make an excuse to go to pets heart so I took her mother suffered and now she wants to go by a turtle. I'm like,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh my God, yeah, Grandma.
Jo Delgadillo: Yes, she's
Jo Delgadillo: She's bored because she has a mess.
Jo Delgadillo: And then birds their seeds like all around their little their cage in their area.
Jo Delgadillo: And my grandma.
Jo Delgadillo: And dirty. So I'm like, you know, she's bored.
Jo Delgadillo: And now she wants a turtle.
Jo Delgadillo: And she said, as for the girls. I'm like, Mm hmm.
Jo Delgadillo: Because they didn't come, bring it up to you brought it up. Yeah, I know.
Jo Delgadillo: So I've been picking and choosing to let her go like, do things, but I finally got her new mask and she had an anxiety attack wearing it because she was closed up and I can see it in her face only and I know my grandma. Like I know just by her talking. I know.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can hear, she's in pain.
Jo Delgadillo: If something's wrong. And she could do the same with me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's
Jo Delgadillo: kind of creepy sometimes but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Still, this tension.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Emotionally intertwine
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or yeah
I see.
Jo Delgadillo: What's wrong, she's like
Jo Delgadillo: I just don't feel right now. It's like, what's wrong. She's
Jo Delgadillo: She's like the mask the mask.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I'm saying
Jo Delgadillo: She just wasn't action. Right. And then I was like, you're at. It's an anxiety attack.
Jo Delgadillo: Like, let's just go
Jo Delgadillo: In and pay for everything. And I told my son's birthday. For the rest, and I'm taking her to the current soon as she took mask off she was fine.
Jo Delgadillo: It was the math. So now I'm like, now I have to find new maps.
Jo Delgadillo: One with those little breather things on it.
Jo Delgadillo: She's still the nice it
Jo Delgadillo: But I seen it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jo Delgadillo: I'm like, not again. Nope. So I gotta find them new mass before she can go out
Jo Delgadillo: Hopefully they're saying that this thing.
Jo Delgadillo: Is they're gonna let everybody start like coming out and opening business again on the first that true
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's what I heard here in Florida.
Jo Delgadillo: A scary though.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I've already seen a difference like before, if I would go walking, people would have a math.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have not seen anyone wearing a math. And I'm like, people are already going back to normal. And there's been nothing really put in place to keep the faith.
Jo Delgadillo: And the numbers haven't changed.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: But there's no difference. It's
Jo Delgadillo: Still scary scares the crap out of me.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I'm not ready. Not at all.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I know and it's scary in and you have to vulnerable side you're young babies and then you're older, Grandma.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And you both have strong personalities and are used to being leaders in your own right, because she raised you she was like that then nurturing and supportive figure
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And in your household. You're the one that gets it done so that control and that power dynamic, it must be hard for your grandma to relinquish that when this has been her role for so long.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And now being vulnerable enough even like you said she wouldn't even admit that the mass. She was the imposter phobic and it was scary for her to kind of say that because it was being vulnerable and relinquishing that power that she so accustomed to having
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm happy to you being patient with her, but I know it's hard to
Jo Delgadillo: It's very hard.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To use that
Jo Delgadillo: Especially because I want to sit and talk with her, but she gets offended or anything that I say
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Much. You can say whatever she wants to me.
Jo Delgadillo: But I'm not allowed to say it back. So I just keep my mouth shut. And I don't know if it's gonna be like that forever, but I don't. The way I'm feeling towards her. I don't want to keep filling that so
Jo Delgadillo: I gotta figure out a way to sit down and Oscar is it me or is it just because
Jo Delgadillo: We're both living in the same house trying to do our own thing and it's your house. Like, I get it.
Jo Delgadillo: To my
Jo Delgadillo: House and I didn't say anything because you're my grandma.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't say that one thing, even though I didn't like what she's doing her dog would be on the house. I didn't say nothing, because that's my grandma.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, we'll try that. I feel I need understand examples that we use, you know,
Jo Delgadillo: I did. I tried it the other day in the backyard.
Jo Delgadillo: She started with how she felt so I listened to listen to when I returned talk about myself. She didn't want to hear it.
Jo Delgadillo: I tried to tell her how much I was learning about myself.
Jo Delgadillo: Doing group therapy and regular therapy with you and she don't talk about it. She started talking about herself and her husband and when she tried to go to therapy with him how horrible it was and
Jo Delgadillo: He she just never let me talk about yourself. It's always turns it talks about herself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. Do you think that's because she's self absorbed or because she's afraid to hear about what's really going on with you.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, cuz she can't fix it.
Jo Delgadillo: She, she's fixing everything for me.
Jo Delgadillo: My whole life.
Jo Delgadillo: If I especially with money like it was just throw money at me constantly needing this needed that even if I didn't want it. She didn't want me to have to struggle for nothing in life, ever. And now,
Jo Delgadillo: I when I got with with now.
Jo Delgadillo: I like the struggle because it taught me a lot like
Jo Delgadillo: Not everybody has that easy life and I wanted that I don't want my kid scrolled away. I didn't
Jo Delgadillo: I wasn't just like them. Now she just I don't think she likes it.
Jo Delgadillo: You know, I'm okay with living the life that I live.
Jo Delgadillo: It. She's like I raised you better. I'm like,
Jo Delgadillo: Just because you raised me better doesn't make me think.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't want to think that I'm not
Jo Delgadillo: I don't want my kids to think that either. I don't think
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: She like your spouse.
Jo Delgadillo: She loves him.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, she at first she didn't but we've known each other for seven years now. Yeah, yesterday was an 11 year anniversary. So she's taking away that like
Jo Delgadillo: It's, it's been different roles. He's played in our life she's known for a long time, but being with me. He's the only person only man that I've ever been with it took care of us and pay our bills.
Jo Delgadillo: Or her having to pay our bills.
Jo Delgadillo: Or parent and some of her pay my truck payment like
Jo Delgadillo: He's the only one that's actually stepped up and was a dad to my kid and actually did the right thing.
Jo Delgadillo: He didn't run when bills were do
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: She respects him for that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Video. I want you to watch
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: About setting healthy boundaries and then the we talked about it often but I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Always good to hear it from a different perspective.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then sad face. Oh, this looks crazy. When I hit the share so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How to set them how to hold them and how to manage them, especially with the people closest to us like our children or our employees or bosses. Well, today we're going to talk about the number one most common obstacle to holding good boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The most common misunderstanding about boundaries is that setting or holding a boundary is mean harsh or bad that by setting a boundary
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We have to be mean to someone else and people who believe this kind of have in the back of their minds have this idea that in order to set boundaries. You kind of have to balance out. Being kind, Being mean to someone
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: While still loving them, I mean. No wonder people shy away from holding boundaries because no one wants to be mean. So let's look into this a little bit more people often associate saying yes or giving someone something
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With being kind and loving and they associate saying no, or being being firm director harsh with someone has being unkind or hateful
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, let's let's look into this a little bit more closely because that is not a fair Association. We can say yes with love in our hearts, or we can say yes with hate in our hearts and we can say no. With love or hate in our hearts. So let's take a look at this chart.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On the top of this chart, we can see two categories, being loving and being hateful or resistant. Right. So where is our heart when we're doing a certain action.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And is called the way of being by the Harbinger Institute and it's talking about our deeper motivations or our intentions are they selfless or selfish.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And on the left side of this chart. We're talking about soft or hard behaviors. So what type of behaviors we're talking about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now it's easy to think of the soft and loving behaviors saying things like, yes, I'll listen to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or yes, I'll give you that toy that I know you've been wanting for a long time. Or yes, I'll let you go visit your friend because I trust you and I believe that you're going to be where you say you're going
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's the soft loving corner of this chart at the bottom right corner are the hard behaviors with a resistant or hateful heart. Right. And these are easy to understand as well. So let's take a look at them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They're screaming, yelling holding a grudge any kind of physical violence, right. These are hard behaviors that come from a selfish angry or hateful place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Trying to force someone to change saying no, just because you're mad at someone right
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So these the two opposite ends of the spectrum. And people often think that's kind of the only way to do it. If we say yes we're being loving it was a no. We're being hateful
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, let's talk about what it looks like if we're saying yes, if we're being soft having gentle behaviors.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: While holding hate or selfishness in our hearts. What does that look like there's a called soft resistant
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let's think of a parent who doesn't want to deal with their kid anymore. They might say, Sure, yeah. Go watch TV. I just don't want to deal with you right now is what they're saying in their heads.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or a parent in the grocery store, they're checking out there's candy in the aisle, the kid starts screaming or asking for candy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Parents says yes, not because they think it was good for the child in this situation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But because they just don't want to hear the kid screaming, they're uncomfortable with the way other people look at them day for their own discomfort are saying yes to the child.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's considered soft resistant right so giving in in a selfish way. Here's another example, think of two people who are dating. And the one says I love you and the other one says I love you too.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But they don't really mean it. They're actually planning on breaking up with that person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But they don't want to, you know, have to have an awkward conversation or an uncomfortable conversation. So they just kind of avoid it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Maybe they break up with the person through text message or just stop stop talking to them all together. Now this isn't because they're trying to be kind or loving to that other person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's because they don't want to feel that discomfort. So to protect themselves, they're just being all soft and sweet but in their heart in their mind they know they don't want to be with this person anymore.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now it's perfectly. It's not hateful to break up with someone, but it is selfish.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To not be upfront with them to protect yourself from feeling that discomfort. A couple more examples like being passive aggressive or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sucking up to a teacher you know you're treating them really nicely to get something from them. These are all examples of being soft resistant. Now let's go to the other corner of this box.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How is it possible to be hard with your behavior, while still being loving. I mean, I'm going to ask you right now. Is it possible to go shove a little kid, like right into the road and gets all scraped up hit them hard maybe right is, could that ever be a loving behavior.
Well, yes. If a car is coming right. If a car is coming to hit this kid and you push them out of the way the car and they get skinned knees.
As the most loving thing you can do for them in that moment. Now I'm obviously not advocating physical violence, but I'm saying that almost all behaviors can be done from two different places.
From a loving selfless place or a hateful selfish place so saying no more TV. Yes. You must brush your teeth. No, you can't buy that toy right now.
These are always to lovingly help provide a positive future and discipline for a child.
If they're coming from a place of love. I once had this boss's name was Shane Gallagher, who's amazing and he told me a story about a time when he fired someone
With so much love and concern for their future that they thanked him afterward and said, I just really appreciate you looking out for me.
By firing me right he fired someone out of love for them. And it was because you know the job just wasn't the right place for them to be. They weren't able to do a good job for the other people there they needed to be somewhere else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So this is the hard loving side of things. I hope that by taking a look at this. This chart were able to let go. This this false idea that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Saying no it's just this mean thing we have to do and balance out with, you know, being nice saying no can be one of the kindest most loving things we do for someone
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People respond more to our intentions, then whether we're saying yes or no. I mean, working in residential treatment. I've seen two different staff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tell one child and treatment, the same rule, you have to XYZ and the other stuff saying you have to XYZ
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the child says yes to the one and no to the other, because the child can tell where is that staff members heart in the time they're telling them that rule.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it's less about rules than it is about where your heart is when you're enforcing them and setting those boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People will feel when you're saying no to them they can feel that you care about them. When you do it. Some people might get confused by this thinking that what I'm saying is we should let people walk all over us.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or we should allow people to take advantage of us or we should never really, you know, do anything harsh to someone else and that's absolutely not what I'm saying.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If someone's mistreating you. Is it really in their best interest that you don't put your foot down.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No. In general, the reason people don't set boundaries is because they're afraid of being mean they're afraid of feeling guilty or they're afraid of feeling scared.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So these are the reason they're not setting that boundary is not for the other person. They're not trying to be kind to the other person for trying to prevent themselves from feeling uncomfortable.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's it's selfish setting boundaries with someone else or telling them no can be the kind of thing we do for them and the most honest thing we do for ourselves.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But to do it. We have to allow ourselves to experience our emotions.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Now remember, the way we get healthier is not just about feeling better, but it's about getting better at feeling so we allow ourselves to feel a little bit of discomfort, as we set these boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And we're going to get a lot better at it. So just to sum things up. Let's let go. The idea that setting boundaries as mean
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And focus instead on where our heart is when we're making these choices about boundaries. Right, let's focus our intentions and being kind, loving and seeing what the other person needs. I hope this was helpful and thanks for watching.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah. Cuz that's like, for example, my daughter, or did you hear what I said on group. The other day about the way my five year old actor when it comes to her doing some work.
Jo Delgadillo: Yes. She hurts yourself. So I do. I have been giving in just because I'm just like, she's not going to do it. Okay. It's silly. Go to the negative part. Well, the other day.
Jo Delgadillo: I was like, you're going to do work. I SAID IT CALMLY, she is just like, no, I don't want to nothing. You're going to do it.
Jo Delgadillo: I didn't like acknowledge what she said, or anything. And instead of like freaking out getting frustrated. I was like, here, this is what you're gonna do. You're gonna do this, that, and then you're done. She did it.
Jo Delgadillo: And now I can't get her to do anything else.
Jo Delgadillo: And I tried that exact same. And I think it's because like even into any chance. I don't know what I have
Jo Delgadillo: On whatever I think I've done that so much now being nice. And just telling her you're going to do this and that and then you can do this.
Jo Delgadillo: And it did work, but now it's not
Jo Delgadillo: Can I gave it so much.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. So now, because there were so many moments where you gave in have to now create one moment where you don't and like you did in that loving voice and maybe explain to her.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You. I know it's something that you don't want to do right now but you know this is something. Sometimes we have to do things that we don't really enjoy it a moment but know that it's you know far better
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And kids like hearing that adults book the same things, even at a young age. So give an example of a time that you had to do something that you really didn't want, but how it helped them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, you know, something like that. They also hired by me guys, you know, wanted to eat. So I made x y&z because I knew that you guys wanted food.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So saying that, yeah, doing work, no one really wants to do it. But at the end of the day, I shouldn't get smarter and different things like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And also create that structure is she knows that when she does her work from a certain time to a certain time, that that's what's going to happen. And there's a certain time will she'll get a snack.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or she'll get to play and she goes back to it helped me hard to find that structure because with not being in school. I could imagine. And you being pulled in so many different directions. It might be hard to keep that structure consistent
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes. So giving her that consistent structure and maybe even put in the time. But when this goes off.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You'll be able to get up, you can play for 10 minutes and then go back to this and setting those timer so that she has those rewards should have some type of sensory indicators of what our responsibilities are. And when it's time for her to relax.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is a good teaching time for our kids to understand there's a balance between responsibilities and relaxation
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If we have too much responsibilities and no relaxation, then we're exhausted, mentally, physically, we're anxious. If we have too much relaxation and not enough responsibilities.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then when that responsible adults and it's hard to get us motivated and people will look at us as lazy. So, you know, at her age and her development, there's a way to teach her these skills so that you know you don't have to be fighting a teenager, you know, later explaining the same principles.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So what were your path where they said that sometimes when you don't establish boundaries that your own selfishness of being uncomfortable and say, you know, what were your thoughts on that.
Jo Delgadillo: That was like spot on.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, cuz I do, I do feel guilty or I'm being mean.
Jo Delgadillo: Mm hmm. And I sometimes people say that, oh, you're not gonna like my son are constantly had to tell him no cuz I'm done being a slave, do this, do that do this I'm gonna like, hey, can you help me do this.
Jo Delgadillo: Oh, in a minute and and never gets done.
Jo Delgadillo: So I've been saying no, a lot lately and
Jo Delgadillo: You don't like it but
Jo Delgadillo: I don't know why are you. Why are you actually like that. Why are you mad. It's always. Are you mad like
Jo Delgadillo: No, I
Jo Delgadillo: Just said no.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: And he doesn't like that because he's used to be giving them a reason I haven't been given a reason
Jo Delgadillo: Why, why, and I'm just like, no, and I'm just gonna continue to do what I whatever I'm doing and driving them crazy, but he just stopped with the please, please, please, I'll do this if you do this, I'll do all this for you just do this. And I'm just like, no.
Jo Delgadillo: He hasn't been doing that because I'm just leaving that no
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah we me and why are you mad. I don't acknowledge what are you saying, so it's just it's working now because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He's been playing out with your five year old and your, your adult fun so that in establishing those boundaries like kind of the same lessons but just in different language.
Jo Delgadillo: Than
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me saying no is the best way I can love you right now. I hope you to develop into being a responsible adult
Jo Delgadillo: And he is. He's really good. He got a job you got them house like she's about to get a vehicle and like I'm proud of him. He could have just sat on his ass and did nothing because it's not doing as good but yeah he loved her, and he knows he has. He's gonna love that baby, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your mom. I'm sorry. Grandma with the boundaries boundaries that she establish with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: With me
Jo Delgadillo: Let me know.
Jo Delgadillo: What was my son.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My review with you because that that relationship with your grandma is so significant. So how does she establish those boundaries with you.
Jo Delgadillo: We kind of don't have any right now because we don't talk
Jo Delgadillo: Or she needs like the other day. She was like, I don't have enough money for electric bills are paid that just like that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But like in childhood, because she took care of you. Right. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Nothing foundries How did she set boundaries for you and was that your reaction. Like, why is she telling me no
Jo Delgadillo: She didn't let me do nothing, just because I was leading lady.
Jo Delgadillo: There was always that came out of her mouth was, I had to act like a lady, I was a lady.
Jo Delgadillo: Like all my friends were out there playing getting dirty, not me. I had to sit there are legs crossed action like a lady, my friends on the tree. I will be like in our conference room. My cousin's
Jo Delgadillo: Know, we're Mexican we got like 50 cousins. And I'm like, oh, my cousin's they're climbing trees. She's like, no, you have to act like a lady, I hate to do
Jo Delgadillo: That's why I don't do that. My girls.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I
Jo Delgadillo: Did get the angel part of everything. Like, oh sure if me nuts.
Jo Delgadillo: Because everything has to be perfect and
Jo Delgadillo: I'm trying so hard not to be like that like instead of everything being constantly like clean and we drove myself picking everything up as they're making a mess. I've been living in until the end of the day.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: And I'm not so in my head lately, but just little things that help here in there.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What's going on my life. Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: Okay, yeah, I can find a charger.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in the video. She also talked about the yelling in that the yelling comes more from a place of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anger or resentment, because you can't sell the boundaries and remember you saying bad, even though it's hard for you to say no you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know when you feel like your backs against the wall, you have no other resources, you start yelling. So how do you think establishing boundaries will help in your delivery. Do you think that if you had a savage more boundaries that you won't yell as often.
Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: It's hard because been on quarantine and change everything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We communicate with each other is just
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, really tense. Everything is and
Jo Delgadillo: I understand why everybody is because we're locked up. We've never had this everything works for dollars new yeah
Jo Delgadillo: And it's harder to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To practice the skill. Now, because what this is teaching us a you know a lot of the messages are kind of being a little more flexible having more grace be more understanding because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Since people have to be shipped to their place, you know, having these rigid schedules might be too much for the kids. So, you know, be a little more flexible. These are the messages. I've been hearing you know I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that it just seems like it's a more healthy and nurturing environment. But when all of this is over.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Which relationship. Do you think you want to practice setting boundaries with
My girl.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What would that look like for you.
Jo Delgadillo: To bring the charger.
Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: Crap.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't
Jo Delgadillo: Get back
Jo Delgadillo: There we go.
Jo Delgadillo: Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: With my grandma, the most is given to her for a lot to do. And then she treats you bad, like I don't do anything.
Jo Delgadillo: Just such. So yeah, most founders agree with her.
Jo Delgadillo: Because I've got so tired of my son. When I before because he hurt my feelings. A lot
Jo Delgadillo: And then now that he's moved down. I've been telling them. No, but I started before then.
Jo Delgadillo: Telling him. No, no.
Jo Delgadillo: We're he's starting to level out says realize oh crap oh
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: I used to that because that's my baby. I gave him to everything I did everything for him and now he's he's got to step up and do things for themselves and now they are
Jo Delgadillo: He's like, mom, she needs for you to help her call this place. And I'm like, No she doesn't. Why she can do it on her own. She has to figure it out.
Jo Delgadillo: I'm parked right next to my house. I'm going to just pull over here.
Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: There's a post office next door. So I parked over here.
Jo Delgadillo: Nobody's listening to the
Jo Delgadillo: Song for all my fabric. It goes dead. It was on 66% now it's our eight
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, something's wrong with it. It hasn't been working when people call me. Well, let me answer it. When I get text messages doesn't even tell me, but I've had this one for almost three years and I don't want to get a new phone.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't want to have to learn it all over.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Again, yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Now I knew he was here last second.
Jo Delgadillo: Thank you.
Thank you.
Jo Delgadillo: Everyone that works.
Jo Delgadillo: Area.
Jo Delgadillo: Right here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well with the boundaries with Grandma I know how you said like she doesn't listen. You just, you just let her
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: See, and she says, Whatever she needs to be kind of shut down with Grandma, the boundaries may look like you know you're negotiating that and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, she's not listening. Let me continue to speak up, because she's become accustomed to you being that listening ear and just that support and probably not recognizing some of the needs that you have as well.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because she's a vulnerable population and because you said because I'm Mexican. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So the cultural implications with that to a, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Hispanic cultures, something happens, we get older, you know, the you take care of us. It's the level of respect. I'm not really talking about feelings and emotions. It's just different with those cultures.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, you know, this is going to take some work for her to realize like, oh, I'm you have feelings to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know you have you have thoughts on this because it's a hierarchy and you know grandma's house like this protective a status.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where they really do no wrong. There's nothing wrong that can be said to them. And so the way that looks. It's just sharing more about yourself with home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It doesn't have to be, you know, this is everything that you did that hurt me, but just checking in with her. I'm like how I love how you wanted to tell her about group, but she started talking about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The experience you've had with therapy in the past and say,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, listen, and be like, oh yeah. But what I really wanted to share with you is like, this is what I've been in group and this is back, and then you bring it back to her, but then teaching her how to have that flow of communication.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Going to need to practice it and have it modeled for her because I her age. That wasn't how the process of communication. When elder speak the youngest just listen. That's just the way it goes.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, you don't talk about the problems you just fix it.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah. So yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: When I was growing up, that's all we always had all of our family around and now I noticed the families on around like they used to be in the past like
Jo Delgadillo: I'd say like 10 years it's changed since my mom passed away. We know I noticed a difference in her. She's kind of like she's lost her so
Jo Delgadillo: Not everybody's around anyone
Jo Delgadillo: I know it hurts her because she's tired of defending us when we were younger we were all on drugs and she defended us. And now that we're not on drugs when my cousin still as she can denied all she wants, but I know he is
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, but now she doesn't need to defend me and she won't let me say, hey, the person I was back then. Isn't the person I am now I
Jo Delgadillo: Work in Progress and I'm working my ass off to change who I am and I personally knew she won't let me speak up and I know it bothers her
Jo Delgadillo: When she goes to California, she tells me. Oh, they said this about you know how to defend you. And I'm like, let me defend myself. She won't let me. And I'm like, What are you saying to bring me up.
Jo Delgadillo: I don't know. Is it positive, negative, but his issue, bringing me up in a bad way. And I don't. I just don't, I don't know. So like, why are they saying that stuff. Where do they get it from oh you know how the family talks on like the family can't talk. I don't talk to them.
Jo Delgadillo: And that's the reason why is because I
Jo Delgadillo: Was never ever ever allowed to defend myself even to this day. We had a big old family fight and for it went off for two months and I had no clue that I did anything
Jo Delgadillo: I supposedly I did all kinds of stuff to the song my aunts, and I didn't even know I did it wasn't even around them for two to three months. I wasn't around her and then I found out I did all this stuff. I'm like, wait, what
Jo Delgadillo: How come I didn't know this I everybody's like, you knew, and I'm like, if I knew that I would have said something I never knew anything about it. They're like, you know, you did this and that. I'm like, oh my god, people. How could I do this stuff when I
Jo Delgadillo: Didn't know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: You still won't let me defend myself as she can defend me it's just white. Can you say stuff and I can't
Jo Delgadillo: The hierarchy. Yes. In that protects
Well,
Jo Delgadillo: Yes, that's so because I wanted, I know how to talk to people know like I want to be able to speak up and defend myself shouldn't have to keep defending me when I'm not the same person.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But when I think of it as like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm I see her that mom their true role.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You think about it now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your kids get older and you're in a space and someone says something bad about your kids, you're going to defend it, and you're going to see it that it's your job to the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You won't see it that. Okay. Now, what's his job and it's my little one stops to just pick up for themselves, you'll always see it in at the end of the day, no matter how old they get. They're my babies so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Even though grandma's not showing love and the way that you want. What I'm seeing is the culture that as the generations that is her way.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so when she comes back to tell you that's kind of her way of saying, look at how I showed up. They talked about my baby and I defended her but you be an adult now is like, Wait, I don't want this burden for you anymore, let me stick up for myself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When she sees it as know I got this. I'm mama.
Jo Delgadillo: I can protect you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And probably for the non to that status, even more so the older she gets because there is not as much production, the order they get, they can't go out and work. They don't have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Romantic relationships. So they're basing their life on memories and her memory is a be a protector and being that strong store for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So any chance she gets she's going to speak up for you and defend you. That's probably something that you're going to have to learn to a set and realize like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, because I think about it now as a mom end of the day, no matter how old they get someone talks about our boys and defending them. I'm not going to expect them to pick up for themselves and she's that nurturing thing that's going to live out of breath so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I really don't think it's anything personal against you. The more I learn more about grandma and culture. I'm thinking it's more just
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Her and her listening to her experiences and dynamics that she can't speak life in a different way, just because of her agent and culture.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, she's, she's so mad that she's getting old.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, she does, she will tell anybody that I'll talk to her that she is it stopped.
Jo Delgadillo: She's like any year I'm 21 and out here on 73 and a
Jo Delgadillo: New Life sucks.
Jo Delgadillo: That she's getting old.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Way, she can find control, she'll do it. So you did.
Jo Delgadillo: She does. Yeah, it's just it sucks because I want to get her out so bad. And now I can't because we're the where we live. Like, literally, I can see it from right here. We live
Jo Delgadillo: Next to senior center.
Jo Delgadillo: And she was about to start going there and now she can't close it down and it's it's a testing place now for approval, but
Jo Delgadillo: She was about to get out and it took me months to talk her into finally going right when I talked her into it. She's like over Thursday, and then the cobra, things started happening, we can let her out.
Jo Delgadillo: She does not like going around people visit our she doesn't want nobody to come in her us like me the protector.
Jo Delgadillo: Want people coming in are bold, it's
Jo Delgadillo: Going to ruin things or or
Jo Delgadillo: Just anything to start our peace or whatever. So it'd be a long time to get suckered into it. When this happens, I'm like, Great, now. And so I got to start over, but
Jo Delgadillo: I will. And I want her to get out and meet people and so she has her own people to talk to not just us as a nobody to talk to you. But her sister in California, but she's not here.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, I mean,
Jo Delgadillo: It was someone she can express yourself.
Jo Delgadillo: Fisher choose another
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What do you think would, would she be open to this like what she'd be open. If you said, Grandma, would you want to join me for a session when they do you think that's something she would be interested in or you think that she doesn't he wouldn't want to do therapy with you.
Jo Delgadillo: I think she would put something should just be a bitch about it.
Jo Delgadillo: Just door. She's been treating me only just she doesn't have nothing nice to say to me, and I can't even it takes, but notice that my husband's been noticing what's grown let's deal with you. And I'm like, I don't know, just you picked on everything. I don't know, but I can ask her to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do it will be the same thing with you. She would check into virtual clinic and maybe just hop on her side consents that it's okay for her to participate.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the therapy session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Cool and are now what have you kind of just talk about, you know, the progress that you've made some of the things you've learned and then I can talk about like communication with the thing that we're working on and establishing boundaries and see
Jo Delgadillo: For me,
Jo Delgadillo: Yes around her. Your, your cuz I like I like I was all I will
Jo Delgadillo: Remember,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, and I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Don't want to it's perfectly fine. She doesn't have to participate.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not something that I feel is
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have to do the therapy. But if it's something if there's a way I can support you, because she's such an important figure for you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, I could meet mediate that conversation between you guys and get her born to your world. This is what Joe has been doing. So it's just something to think about.
Jo Delgadillo: Because that's what I was trying to tell her, when I was talking about. They're both trying to her. I've learned a lot about myself and I didn't get that far. But I have learned a lot about myself.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah, the things that I do and why I do it. And I was trying to explain that to her and
Jo Delgadillo: She's was I. Oh, and I've been this and then I'll ask her what did you say this like not even maybe a next stage like I didn't do that or I didn't say that, and everybody's just like yes you did but normal speak up in
Jo Delgadillo: A while. I think she might be because her parents had Alzheimer's dementia. So I don't want, I don't want to say I'm starting to see signs of
Jo Delgadillo: In but it scares me because I, I, I started to see it like
Jo Delgadillo: Just she is getting older, she's more stressed out and I just I want to chalk it up to stress, but it's a possibility that you could have a do because most of parents had it.
So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Cute. When we will be helpful for you to remind yourself is this is not personal. This has nothing to do with me. So that, and it may seem hard because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The attacks are coming directly towards you, but you know that people tend to take out their aggression from the ones that they love most of the ones closest to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So she just trust you enough to know that she can be the worst version of herself is still get the best version of you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's why she does it. So not that she picked an advantage. But this is just our outlet
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so the best thing you can do, because we can't change other people. We can definitely change how we respond to it and realizing this is not about me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And maybe say it out loud. She says, I'm thankful to you, but this has nothing to do with me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then, and then maybe show for seeing those little those little statements of wow, okay. What is what is don't mean by that maybe the more she hears it, she'll realize, oh, she's saying that because I'm being mean.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, maybe simple like that the jump to do rather than directly asking her, like, Hey, what's going on between us like that may not be a conversation or death that she wants even get into
Jo Delgadillo: Your yeah and I don't want like she she cannot wake up tomorrow morning. And then this is the last thing I had to return.
Jo Delgadillo: Yeah.
Jo Delgadillo: Well yeah, I don't want that. So yeah, sitting. I'm gonna I'll talk to her, see if she'll do it with me.
Jo Delgadillo: What I know that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, we can do that. I just she has to go to virtual clinic and sign the consent to treatment so that she can participate in a session.
Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, so I'll look out for your email about what that conversation was like, and when you want to schedule the next one. Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: All right, take care.
Jo Delgadillo: Your to our one more quick
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It did.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Not know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Me email back to April to let her know, You showed up. Okay.
Jo Delgadillo: Oh yeah, well, should be doing it today because IBM edge word tonight.
Jo Delgadillo: So much up my brother off.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: OK, OK, I'm going to eat right now.
Okay.
Ryan Morrow: How are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How are you
Ryan Morrow: I'm good, thank you.
Ryan Morrow: Good. Actually, I'm
Ryan Morrow: Kind of lazy.
Ryan Morrow: Past couple of weeks because I haven't been working so laid off right now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I remember you mentioned that to me.
Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: But other than that, I'm staying on top of everything that I can do the best that I can. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can do during this time, were you able to, I know you said you were probably going to access a neighbor or someone's on an in house jam.
Ryan Morrow: Oh yeah, nah.
Ryan Morrow: That they'll kind of fell through. So I'm just waiting for the gym. So come back up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When are they saying that's going to happen with their time in Florida, so I know
Ryan Morrow: Probably like okay Friday. They're opening up
Ryan Morrow: Restaurants and stuff.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then I think they're going to give hair salons.
Ryan Morrow: gyms and stuff like another week or two.
Ryan Morrow: From Friday. Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And did
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I give you an expectation of when
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can go back
Ryan Morrow: Now they've already called a couple of guys back to work.
Ryan Morrow: And
Ryan Morrow: And when I talked to my boss last week, he told me that I was on the list to get called back but they haven't called me it
Ryan Morrow: So I don't really know yet, but I I did get my unemployment and I'm pretty good amount
Ryan Morrow: A week or every two weeks. And so, uh, so I do have that to help me out until I either go back to work, or find another job.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, and much better spirits that when I saw you last
Ryan Morrow: Yeah. Yeah, definitely. I actually, I got a vehicle, a couple days ago.
Ryan Morrow: And so, um, so that's got my my spirits lifted a little bit
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Anything that kills significant to talk about in session today.
Ryan Morrow: Um,
Ryan Morrow: No, not really.
Ryan Morrow: I feel pretty good. I'm ready. I mean, obviously, I'm ready to go back to work and in the gym. I'm getting sick of being stuck in the house all the time.
Ryan Morrow: But spiritually mentally and physically I feel pretty good.
Ryan Morrow: Overall,
Ryan Morrow: I haven't had any problems.
Ryan Morrow: Like with relationships and stuff. Um, I went and saw my family. The other day when I got my vehicle and a couple days before that I went to close.
Ryan Morrow: To pick up my prescription
Ryan Morrow: And and then two days later I bought a vehicle.
Ryan Morrow: And went back to take it on the highway because love is only on 90 miles away or close to love. It is only 90 miles. So it's like an hour and a half drive
Ryan Morrow: And so the other day when I got my vehicle. I drove down there just to see how it
Ryan Morrow: Did on the highway and to some my mom as well.
Ryan Morrow: So, so, yeah.
Ryan Morrow: And then I talked to my kids.
Ryan Morrow: Once or twice a week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Refresh my memory. How many kids do you have
Ryan Morrow: Two that are 2425 I think
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I had when I was really young.
Ryan Morrow: And their, their names guy and my my son's name is guy and my daughter's name is Jocelyn.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And how are they doing with everything independent
Ryan Morrow: I'm good, that they're, they both have babies and so
Ryan Morrow: They're doing really well under the circumstances.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I have a video I wanted to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Play and secure your thoughts on
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where I'm starting therapy sessions with clients, just to kind of get your thoughts on what relationships look like for them and what our emotional relationships.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Why your work environment feel so stressful and you come home from a meeting feeling like no one's understanding you are everyone's out to get you, or does your home feel like there's a lot of tension. Maybe you want your teenager to feel
Comfortable talking with you, but it's just not working. If any of these are the case for you. You might have a problem with emotional safety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: creating an environment of emotional safety is essential for a productive workplace a healthy home and positive relationships. If you feel tense or like you're being judged all the time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or if you create an environment where people don't feel listened to, or understood
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then your environment is not emotionally safe. Today we're going to talk about a few ways you can increase emotional safety in your environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Emotional safety is when people feel appreciated valued worthwhile when they feel like they can trust their environment to be fair and consistent and kind
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In an emotionally safe environment people feel like they can share
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Their vulnerable and sensitive feelings without being mocked blamed or judged feedback and correction can be given in a calm safe and loving manner, people take accountability for their own actions without blame or defensiveness differences of opinion can be shared.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And also accepted, people don't feel like they have to change to be okay in emotionally safe environments. There's a feeling of honesty.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And there's a feeling of clear and safe expectations, some of the indicators of an emotionally safe environment or you feel comfortable around each other.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People don't feel like they're going to be attacked there tends to be open and clear communication when someone messes up
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: repairs are made quickly, you'll see an increase in Vulnerability and openness, where people are sharing their really sensitive feelings.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And people feel connected. Now, if you'd like to create an environment like this. You have to focus 95% of your effort on changing yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because we are responsible for our environment and what we what we put out there and what we allow to come into our environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So most of your effort should be focusing on yourself. I say this because when I talk about emotional safety. I get a lot of people say, Oh yeah, the people around me. They're so dangerous. They're so mean there's attacking there so judgmental de de de
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And they don't realize that by saying that and thinking that they're actually creating an emotionally unsafe environment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or perhaps the people around them actually are attacking and dangerous, but they aren't taking any steps to create safety for themselves by setting healthy boundaries.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So when it comes to emotional safety focus on yourself. What can you do to create this the opposite of emotional safety is judgment blame attacking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: There's a lot of closed off emotions so people use anger instead of sadness or they express frustration.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Instead of, you know, expressing that they feel discouraged some other indicators of an emotionally unsafe environment is people are constantly giving advice. Instead of listening. We're constantly judging someone else or trying to
Ryan Morrow: Change them if they don't agree with them in emotionally unsafe environments. People feel a sense of conditional love that means well I love you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If you change or I love you when you're good, but not when you're bad and that creates this constant sense of insecurity now on the receiving end of that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: People who are constantly feeling like they aren't good enough or questioning their own self worth are going to project that on other people.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So that's something that needs to be worked on in order to create a feeling of emotional safety other indicators of an emotionally unsafe environment are yelling
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Threatening or obviously any physical violence that creates, you know, a completely unsafe environment defensiveness blame using voice tone or a lot of attitude.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: also contribute to negative environment, as do passive aggressive statements.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: One of the most common indicators of an emotionally unsafe environment or using things like personal attacks. So instead of saying, I don't like it when you forget to do your tour. You think you are the laziest person in the world.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, attacking their character just calling them a lazy sob. The other thing that's a big indicator of emotionally unsafe environments.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is when the rules are boundaries are standards are constantly changing. People don't know what to expect.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or when there's a feeling of walking on eggshells like if you say the wrong thing, that person is going to blow up. Or if you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: If you do the wrong thing, that person is going to be offended. So those are all indicators of emotionally unsafe environments.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We can actively create an environment of emotional safety by working on ourselves, we create an environment of love.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Where we aren't trying to change other people, but rather we put our focus on trying to understand them and listen to them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When the time comes for correction. We are consistent firm clear and fair we're honest with people and we share our, our vulnerable emotions like Sadness or hurt.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Instead of only expressing secondary emotions like frustration and anger, we create internal safety by building ourselves up and
Ryan Morrow: You know, ending on offended not taking offense by what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Other people say, we also got to make sure never to use the word emotional safety as a way to badger or try and change someone else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So going up someone's in you're creating an emotionally unsafe environment is not going to be helpful if the environment is actually unsafe.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then what we need to do is set boundaries around other people ask for change. Invite change and when necessary leave to create emotional safety we always have to focus on what's within our own realm of control.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we focus on changing ourselves instead of trying to change other people, if we're in an emotionally unsafe environment we're less likely to create change by asking someone else to change.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then we are by setting clear, consistent and firm boundaries. It is fair to ask other people to change to make requests and to, you know, tell them how they're affecting you. But it is rarely fair or helpful, but to expect that someone change or to demand.
Ryan Morrow: That they change in order for you to accept them. This creates a feeling of powerless in yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because you're demanding that someone else change in order for you to feel okay we can take back our emotional safety by focusing on our own sins and creating clear, firm and consistent boundaries with others. Thanks for watching. I hope that was helpful and
Ryan Morrow: I really liked it.
Ryan Morrow: My thoughts. Some of the stuff that she said I could relate to
Ryan Morrow: On both on both ends. Sometimes I'm pretty consistent.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I said, what was that thats related to
Ryan Morrow: Sometimes I
Ryan Morrow: Go on the defense.
Ryan Morrow: Real quick.
Ryan Morrow: Maybe when someone's trying to give constructive criticism or advice.
Ryan Morrow: I might feel like that person.
Ryan Morrow: It's none of their business.
Or
Ryan Morrow: They don't know me well enough to be given me advice on
Ryan Morrow: That particular subject.
Ryan Morrow: That don't know enough about
Ryan Morrow: You know what
Ryan Morrow: My circumstances are
Ryan Morrow: And so, uh,
Ryan Morrow: So on one side, like I i know where my wrongs are
Ryan Morrow: But at the same time. Like sometimes people
Ryan Morrow: Don't realize that they are stepping into a boundary that they don't really station be
Ryan Morrow: Stepping into
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was the last time you experience that
Ryan Morrow: Just the just the other day talking to a friend of mine.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So I heard you say that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The person doesn't know me like that to kind of
Ryan Morrow: Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: I'll kind of all kind of give a go into detail.
Ryan Morrow: It's a girl that I had been talking to
Ryan Morrow: dating a little bit here and there, whatever. And you know, she doesn't really know like
Ryan Morrow: A whole lot about my, my personal situation she knows a little bit about, you know, like I'm in recovery and stuff. And so anyways I I bought a vehicle, the other day and I was telling her that I needed to get you know my own place now. And I was gonna focus on that and
Ryan Morrow: Like she doesn't know like how much money I make don't make or what I O or don't know as far as budget wise.
Ryan Morrow: And she started telling me you know, we'll just be careful. Don't get in over your head and
Ryan Morrow: Like, I understand, like,
Ryan Morrow: Where she was coming from. And she was trying to be
Ryan Morrow: You know, get friendly advice or whatever. But I kind of I, kind of, I was kind of offended because I didn't feel like it was her place to be giving me advice about something that she doesn't really know that much about
Ryan Morrow: And so I was kind of, I was kind of rude to her.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Play out
Ryan Morrow: Well, she ended up hanging up on me and
So,
Ryan Morrow: So, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So do you still feel like you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: regrets about the outcome of that conversation, would you have done.
Ryan Morrow: No, not really. Um,
Ryan Morrow: I mean, I could have been more blind and just been like, hey, you know what, like we're not boyfriend and girlfriend.
Ryan Morrow: Um, you don't really know
Ryan Morrow: That much and I mean I told her I was like, you don't know how much money I'm making right now, we're not making you don't
Ryan Morrow: Know what bills. I have or don't have. I was like, understand where you're coming from. And of course, you know, I just kind of felt like she was trying to mommy.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, no. And I was like, you know, I, I appreciate the advice, but I'm fine, like I know what I'm doing. I'm a big boy like you know so and I understand like my wrong in that I could have
Ryan Morrow: I could have handled it in a friendlier way. I probably got went on the defensive
Ryan Morrow: Pretty quick because I do that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I think
Ryan Morrow: Be a lot of a lot of that is because my dad.
Ryan Morrow: Was always talking down to me and tell me know like you know just negative all the time.
Ryan Morrow: And so I think that
Ryan Morrow: Unless it's my mom or my sister, someone who I respect love, care about, um, when they, when they do that, it's okay. And I, I either lists and and
Ryan Morrow: If it's something that that we agree with them. I'll still, you know, yes. Thank you. I appreciate it, you know.
Ryan Morrow: I'll still be respectful and nice about it. But if it's somebody that I don't feel like like I don't trust. I'm on that. I'm not in that like a close to a relationship with you know I'm I kind of, I kind of take it personally. And I've kind of felt like
Ryan Morrow: She was a attack me in a, in a way, in a sense.
Ryan Morrow: Like trying to tell me how to live my life. I guess you know I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: Been. And the thing is, is it's like I'm in recovery. Right now I'm having to start my life over from nothing from nothing, basically.
Ryan Morrow: And I have a little bit of help. I have a friend of mine here in Lubbock that's helped me out a lot.
Ryan Morrow: Um, but other than that, like, I don't have anybody any family members, giving me money financially or anything like that. So anyways, so you know, like there's, you know, you have to have three essential things a job, a place to live in a vehicle to, kind of, you know,
Ryan Morrow: For life to happen and
Ryan Morrow: I have. I just got laid off. So I'm not 100% sure on the job.
Ryan Morrow: But I just got a vehicle and I need to find my own place right
Ryan Morrow: And and so uh you know when I can understand if she was telling me that if I told her I went bought a dirt bike and some guns or
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know a bunch of clothes likes
Ryan Morrow: You know, whatever. But after I told her I went got a vehicle. And now I'm going to get my own place you know two things that I have to you know need and have to have she's trying to tell me
Ryan Morrow: You know, to be careful and don't get, you know, and so anyway I just, I don't know.
Ryan Morrow: I just felt like she was stepping into a
Ryan Morrow: Place that she shouldn't even, you know, she should have just been like, oh, that's cool, you know, whatever, you know,
Ryan Morrow: I'm happy for you. That's what most
Ryan Morrow: People that because you know most people realize that our thinking logically or, you know, down to earth.
Ryan Morrow: Um, they know. Like, who
Ryan Morrow: They are and they know a boundary
Ryan Morrow: They know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like
Ryan Morrow: You know, like, I know that. Like if someone that I don't know very well tells me they just went and did that I'm not gonna tell them, we'll just be careful, you know, don't you know it's not my place.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, hey, I'm happy for you, man. I hope everything works out, you know, that's awesome.
Ryan Morrow: You know, I mean, and so
Ryan Morrow: So yeah and and if she were sitting here listening to that she she would she she probably wouldn't know how to receive that
Ryan Morrow: She would probably take offense to it.
Ryan Morrow: And think that
Ryan Morrow: That I that it was all my fault or whatever, you know, so I don't know, I just thought that was a good example of from what she was some of the stuff she was talking about.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is it is because what I'm hearing the core is that you are taking private ownership and your ability to be self sufficient and that relationship plays a critical key and advice, giving
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And she hasn't built that relationship to be in a position to give any advice or insight, but at the same time. And what did she be supportive of someone that you said is trying to be self sufficient.
Ryan Morrow: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the emotional safety, I could see the connections, because with the relationship is ok we start seeing those red flags up. Okay, lack of support.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, and, and you're going to be a little more aware of critique because of what you said the relationship in dynamic with your father. So you're more aware of it and if she did experienced that in her childhood or in her upbringing. She may not think that it's such a big deal.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I'm pretty sure in the conversation, you were given her subtle cues that okay or advice wasn't wasn't going well. Um, and did she react to it. Was she understanding when she heard her viewpoint, or did she also just become defensive
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And thinking she gave up on it.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I mean, yeah, she didn't like me telling her that it wasn't her place or her business to be telling me because you don't know my situation.
Ryan Morrow: And she didn't like that I was telling her that. And so
Ryan Morrow: She hung up on me.
Ryan Morrow: And told me that I heard her
Feelings.
Ryan Morrow: She sent me a text and so anyways.
Ryan Morrow: This is a, this isn't a person that I'm going to be in a relationship with
Ryan Morrow: Or anything like that, you know, saw it doesn't bother me, mostly at all. It was kind of just like
Ryan Morrow: Whatever, but
Ryan Morrow: Maybe me was
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I agree with your viewpoint, I could say maybe a delivery could have been different. But the core of what you're saying is definitely accurate.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Be more supportive and listening, rather than
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For taking what someone does what feels sufficient for them.
Right.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah. Yeah, I mean I wouldn't if she would have told me
Ryan Morrow: Like she's going through a divorce. And so her financial and then all the stuff going on her financial situation is is upside down as well and you know if she told me I just went bought
Ryan Morrow: 10 cars and a house, I'd be like, hey, that's cool. Awesome. I'm glad for
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You
Ryan Morrow: You know I it's not none of my business like
Ryan Morrow: To tell you, hey, you might be getting in over your head or whatever.
Ryan Morrow: You know,
Ryan Morrow: That's my way of thinking I I know everybody else doesn't think that way, though.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is it possible, because the fact that she's gone through a divorce and our financial situation is uneasy. Is it possible that she was projecting her own fears of her financial insecurities on you probably saw her advice was helpful.
Ryan Morrow: Well, yeah, she just had to give her her truck back to her husband.
Ryan Morrow: Because he's the finance the guy that you know bought it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Mm hmm.
Ryan Morrow: And so she had to hand that brand new truck back to him.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And her
Ryan Morrow: grandma gave her a Ford Explorer.
Ryan Morrow: That's, you know, older but it's still nice
Ryan Morrow: And she's having to drive it and I think she kind of felt like
Ryan Morrow: You know, not jealous it all.
Ryan Morrow: But, you know,
Ryan Morrow: Like it was hard for her to be happy for for me whenever because she's going through what she's going through
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I see that. And I can see the slip that she would make and thinking that she was to be in support of but in reality he just living through her own fears and her current situation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, telling you to be careful with because people are thinking I should have been more careful. I should have been more prepared and self sufficient.
Ryan Morrow: Right and and the funny thing is, is she, she tells me I don't care what because we're not together, you know, we're not we're
Ryan Morrow: You know, just like an open friendly relationship.
Ryan Morrow: And she always tells me I don't care what you do or who you do it with or, you know, you know. You're a big boy, blah, blah, blah. But then like she wants to give me her opinion and our two cents.
Ryan Morrow: All the time.
Ryan Morrow: So it's like, obviously, you do care or
Ryan Morrow: You wouldn't be and she don't understand that I try to explain it through you're contradicting yourself.
Ryan Morrow: And so anyways, yeah, this is, this isn't a girl that like, you know, our red flag that one light real quick.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah
Ryan Morrow: So anyways,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What relationships do you feel like they get you. They understand
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: what your needs are, past and present.
Ryan Morrow: Uh,
Ryan Morrow: Well, I mean, I'll always my mom and sisters
Ryan Morrow: Are always supportive and they're always real with me, you know, they'll be happy for me, you know, if I go and buy something, but, you know, my mom you know she'll be like, Hey, you know, be careful.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, and it served
Ryan Morrow: As her place to, you know, for her to tell me
Ryan Morrow: You know, be careful. Don't get in over your head, you know, you just got this. Good job, but don't go out and try to buy the world yet.
Ryan Morrow: And I'm really impatient.
Ryan Morrow: And I want everything now. And so I go out and I
Ryan Morrow: Try with everything that I have to make things happen sometimes sooner than they're supposed to.
Ryan Morrow: And so so anyways. Like, you know. Yeah. So my mom and my sisters are always honest and real with me always happy for me, regardless of if I if I even if I shouldn't have bought it or did it.
Ryan Morrow: But, you know, they'll, they'll also give tell me like real real advice, you know, they're not. They don't sugarcoat anything
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, and my
Ryan Morrow: My dad I I don't really have a relationship with him right now. I haven't talked to him in two years, we've we've had our, our, up and down. This has been since I was a kid.
Ryan Morrow: Relationship and so
Ryan Morrow: Um, other than my mom and sisters, um,
Ryan Morrow: I mean, I have a couple of guy friends.
Ryan Morrow: That are the same way.
Ryan Morrow: You know,
Ryan Morrow: Usually my guy friends. They don't even step into that, hey, you probably should be careful, or you probably shouldn't that are always just like, Hey. You're a big boy like I'm happy for you and they might be thinking in their mind.
Ryan Morrow: You know, he probably shouldn't have done that. Or he probably you know needs to not
Ryan Morrow: Or whatever, you know, but
Ryan Morrow: They still I they they respect that boundary and they don't
Ryan Morrow: You know, really go there with me.
Ryan Morrow: So I so I mean they and they probably should, you know, to a certain point, like, you know, you want your best friend, to be able to
Ryan Morrow: Hold you accountable and give you constructive criticism and also you being able to receive it on the other end as well. Um, and, as far as like intimate relationships go
Ryan Morrow: Like currently like I'm just dating. I have I have, you know, girl like not girlfriends. But girls that I talked to and stuff.
Ryan Morrow: But the girl that is helping me her and love it, you know, she understands like my circumstances, my situation she knows me like I'm open with her about all my business, whether it be dating financial stuff.
Ryan Morrow: And so like
Ryan Morrow: I'll let her, you know, tell me, you know, Finn and whether I agree or not, like, you know, like will argue our way. Maybe not like argue argue, but
Ryan Morrow: You know, we'll go back and forth, maybe a little bit
And
Ryan Morrow: At the end of the day, like I know where I'm wrong, and where I'm where I'm right. Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: So anyways, so yeah, I don't really have besides my mom and sisters. I don't really have
Ryan Morrow: A wife, you know, to
Ryan Morrow: Help me in that area.
Or
Ryan Morrow: Really, I don't really have any like close guy friends.
Ryan Morrow: To help me in that area. So
Ryan Morrow: And a lot of that has to do with
Ryan Morrow: My addiction, like I've ran a lot of people off.
Ryan Morrow: Burn, burn bridges and
Ryan Morrow: So, you know, you know how that goes.
Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: So,
Ryan Morrow: I was just gonna say, so I don't really have a
Ryan Morrow: Whole lot of people. And I'm really close with
Ryan Morrow: They can call me or that want to call me and talk to me about stuff and
Ryan Morrow: give me advice or whatever. Yeah.
Ryan Morrow: Plus I'm 40
Ryan Morrow: And so
Ryan Morrow: You know, people kind of feel like
Ryan Morrow: You know, you should be
Ryan Morrow: Able to hold yourself up.
Ryan Morrow: And your, you know,
Ryan Morrow: Take care of your business. And whatever you do, is on you and you know. So usually people in general, you know,
Ryan Morrow: I guess.
Ryan Morrow: For the most part, you know, expect you to be able to make good and bad choices or, you know, work your way through them.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah. So anyways,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah. So, good point. But I heard you mention, um, with that relationship and even different things that not having that place.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To get that feedback and even the best friend, as you were talking, I saw you reflect the light well
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I wonder why he doesn't. It's almost like that's what you're processing, as you were discussing what qualities or characteristics would it take for someone to have that place or that position where they would get feedback in the feel like, yeah, they have the right to to offer that to
Ryan Morrow: A
Ryan Morrow: I, I, I'm not sure if I totally understand you, what you what you're asking or telling me, but um I think first and foremost people in my circle the know like what I'm what I've been through. I'm going through
Ryan Morrow: They have to see.
Ryan Morrow: Me making good choices.
Ryan Morrow: And doing the right thing. Okay. And my sobriety.
Ryan Morrow: And they have to see that for a while before they start trusting me and before they want to get close to me again.
Ryan Morrow: You know what I mean.
Ryan Morrow: And so, once that's established hopefully
Ryan Morrow: This is the last time that I ever have to you know put everything back together.
Ryan Morrow: That I think people will be more up to like want to get closer to me.
Ryan Morrow: And yeah yeah and give me feedback and stuff.
Ryan Morrow: But as of right now, you know, everybody kind of has to step away from you and let you work things out on your own through counseling and through outside sources.
Ryan Morrow: Because once you once you've uh
Ryan Morrow: You know, piss people off and burn bridges and you know you people don't trust you and they kind of feel like they have to step away from you and lets you you know figure this out on your own.
Ryan Morrow: You know, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That that example covered a lot of the questions that I had
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Initially I was gonna ask who makes you feel appreciated. Like they said in the video. So would it comes to significant figures again mom and sisters that make you feel appreciated.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I mean it.
Ryan Morrow: There are the three people in my family, whether I'm not sober sober that stand by me, you know, as much as they can.
Ryan Morrow: Until they have to step away. You know, they will
Ryan Morrow: But
Ryan Morrow: my step dad, he's kind of
Ryan Morrow: Got a grudge against me and I don't know if we'll ever totally work that out and me my real dad happened spoke in two years and that's on a whole nother doesn't have anything to do with drugs or anything. It's just my dad being the way that my dad is
Ryan Morrow: My sisters don't really talk to them either. So anyways, um,
Ryan Morrow: So, um, what else, what else were you asking
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I just asked who makes you feel appreciated. So mentioned Connecticut relationships mom and your sisters and what I'm hearing is that not only
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you need an emotional safe environment you're also trying to create emotionally safe spaces so that others can feel comfortable with you again.
Ryan Morrow: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And so other than being in the program, doing what are the things have you been trying to do to create that emotional safety for others.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To sobriety.
Ryan Morrow: Well, I, yeah, I mean,
Ryan Morrow: Because, like, okay, I'm 40 years old.
Ryan Morrow: And I live in a town that I just moved to, you know, a couple of months ago, I don't know anybody here really
Ryan Morrow: And so I'm starting my life over from scratch. And I'm kind of starting my my relationships over from scratch, for the most part, um, as well, like
Ryan Morrow: I don't know all of my guy friends back home, you know, they're married, they have families and they have their own problems. And, you know, I'm not like I don't have hang out you know best for you know like I'm not
Ryan Morrow: Even when even if our sober. You know, like
Ryan Morrow: I I'm at the point in my life where we're i don't i don't really have that, you know, it's family.
Ryan Morrow: And, you know, maybe a girlfriend.
Ryan Morrow: And that's pretty much it, though. I mean, you know, like right now as far as my family's concerned.
Ryan Morrow: As long as my mom and my sisters and my nephew's
Ryan Morrow: Love Me and are, you know, happy for me and and support me I'm totally content with that, like, I don't really my step dad and my dad. They can do whatever they want to do.
Ryan Morrow: That doesn't really bother me. One way or another.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So your kids you do as an emotional
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They figure
Ryan Morrow: Uh, yeah, yeah. Um,
Ryan Morrow: They they've never seen me on drugs.
Ryan Morrow: They've never seen me high or or or anything. So, uh, my kids are at the point of their of their life where they just want to see me good and and you know like when I talk to them would just talk as friends, basically.
Ryan Morrow: They understand like
Ryan Morrow: We
Ryan Morrow: That me and their mom had them when they were when we were really young and things, you know, you know, could have
Ryan Morrow: Been a lot different. If the circumstances were different, but because of the age. And they moved away right after that they were the second my daughter was born. And so I didn't. I wasn't able to have a relationship with them for for a long time.
Ryan Morrow: And a lot of that was my fault because I kind of built a wall.
Up.
Ryan Morrow: And just, I wanted to live my life and party and have fun.
Ryan Morrow: And
Ryan Morrow: So until like
Ryan Morrow: Three or four years ago. And when I I went to a program called teen challenge and I stayed for 15 months and graduated and that's when I met my kids like really for the first time.
Ryan Morrow: And I had talked to them on the phone and stuff before that and had some kind of relationship with them at least a little bit but um anyways. After I graduated there I met them for the first time, and I started talking to them and having like more of a relationship with them.
Ryan Morrow: But really, not like a father, son, daughter relationship, but more of because I don't feel like I hold that over them. Um, they call me, Dad. But, you know,
Ryan Morrow: I haven't really been a father to them. I mean,
Ryan Morrow: In all honesty.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Ryan Morrow: They understand that and
Ryan Morrow: They're okay with that. They just want me to be be good, you know, sober and and they want they they want to be able to see me on the holidays and whatever and meet them, you know, certain times of the year, because they live in Fort Worth, and I live in Lubbock or Clovis So anyways, I mean,
Ryan Morrow: I would say, besides my mom and sisters. That's the most important thing that I need to focus on as far as relationship goes is my relationship with my my kids.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is that, is that because you said what your kids want from you is that what you're wanting to are there.
In
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your father
Ryan Morrow: Do what now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because you said you know they I was unable to be a father to them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, so some people would struggle with remorse or anything about that.
Ryan Morrow: Oh, yeah. Yeah, I definitely do.
Ryan Morrow: I feel bad that that I was selfish.
Ryan Morrow: And I wanted to go and party and have fun and and I could have after I turned 18 I could have when sought them out and tried to be a dad.
Ryan Morrow: But because of what happened with me in their mom and other circumstances. It's not that I didn't want it why want anything to do with them. But I did want
Ryan Morrow: I wanted to live my life. And so I was very selfish in that. And so I didn't make any effort. I figured, after I graduated high school, I figured I was at
Ryan Morrow: I figured I was that up in a place where you know what, like it's going to leave well enough alone.
Ryan Morrow: And then I got hooked on drugs 20 456 whatever it was. And so at that point.
Ryan Morrow: You know, I felt horrible about the situation. I knew that I messed up that I should have been a dad and at least tried you know even though I was young.
Ryan Morrow: But I just figured, you know what, it's better they're better off without me. Because at that point in my life. I felt like I just I screwed up my whole life forever and that I was never going to be able to be a good father
Ryan Morrow: But then I talked to them when I met them and they were like, You know what, we forgive you. We don't have any grudge. Um, we just want to, to have a good relationship with you and for you to be it'd be okay.
Ryan Morrow: So, so, yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm sort of possibilities with that relationship.
Ryan Morrow: Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, exclude like both my, my dad and step dad. Um, yeah, I don't. That's not even an issue. Um, I guess when it comes to relationships. I need to focus on my kids. That's, that's number one. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The ones that you know is a possibility. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And that's a good mindset to have because some people get so fixated on the relationships that they know it's like beyond repair at this point and it just continues to produce more guilt, shame, and it just needs to that addiction relapse.
Ryan Morrow: Right, and they see if if my son and daughter light bad mouth me
Ryan Morrow: And called me and cursed me or set bad things about me, then it would really hurt me a lot more than it has
Ryan Morrow: The only pain that I've that I've felt his pain.
Ryan Morrow: Of my own shame and guilt. They've done nothing but show me love. They're all through everything.
Ryan Morrow: So, so, yeah. They're really good kids and they were brought up. Good. I'm in a Christian home and they understood the
Ryan Morrow: Way. My dad was with me and that I had a hard life growing up and I took a bad path and ended up in some bad places and things happen. So I'm basically they just want the past to be the past and to have
Ryan Morrow: From from this day forward, you know, a good
Ryan Morrow: You know relationship friendship.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How did they come to that understanding, was it mom was it
Ryan Morrow: Your yeah probably too long.
Ryan Morrow: I mean,
Ryan Morrow: When we were younger. Me and the mom. The mom.
Ryan Morrow: We had problems. I mean, we were 1516 and we were both doing all kinds of stupid stuff and that she was sleeping with a lot of my friends, I was probably sleep with her friends. I mean,
Ryan Morrow: Yeah, I just wasn't, it wasn't good, you know, and so when she picked up and left. I was so like upset with her that I didn't, I couldn't. I probably kind of held held it on out on guy. And Jocelyn to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And was like, I'm done. I'm done with all of them, you know,
Ryan Morrow: So anyways,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Two questions before we wrap up our session.
Ryan Morrow: No.
Ryan Morrow: No, I think that that covered, you know, pretty much, um,
Ryan Morrow: What I wanted to talk about and and my feelings and stuff like that. So I feel like it was a good session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That the element of a major appointment.
Ryan Morrow: All right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And what
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What schedule does Dr. Allen and have set up for you. Do you want to do every other week for session.
Ryan Morrow: Um,
Ryan Morrow: I guess weekly. I mean, I would rather do every other week. But once I go back to work and stuff because it gets so hectic, but for right now, every weeks, fine.
Ryan Morrow: We can keep this same schedule.
Ryan Morrow: If that's okay with you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I'm looking at my schedule. Now, it might just have to be bi WEEKLY. I'M ALREADY BOOKED for next Thursday.
Ryan Morrow: Alright Friday or
Ryan Morrow: Monday or Tuesday is fine.
Ryan Morrow: I mean, I don't, I don't have anything to do so. I mean, whenever you can. As follow me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, we're still looking into
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The following week, I can do Monday at MONDAY THE 11th like this coming Monday, but MONDAY THE 11th at five o'clock or I can do TUESDAY THE 12th at five or six
Ryan Morrow: Monday 511 is fine.
Ryan Morrow: And that's what's on central
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Oh, I'm always doing it in Mountain Standard Time.
Ryan Morrow: Okay. What time is that mountain
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So five o'clock mountain time
Ryan Morrow: Alright, so six o'clock, my time.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. And I'll let that the element know that date of that appointment. The next appointment so he doesn't
Ryan Morrow: So that's not going to be this money that's going to be next.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Monday yeah 11
Ryan Morrow: Okay, cool.
Ryan Morrow: Okay, so
Ryan Morrow: I got that down and I'll put that on my calendar.
Ryan Morrow: And I'll see you next Monday.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. Five o'clock.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Alright, sounds great. All right, take care.
Ryan Morrow: All right. Thank you, Jessica. Have a good night. Bye bye.